---
title: Algebraic Number Theory 01
layout: post
categories: reading
tags: ANT
date: '2021-01-01 23:30:00'
---

_This post series follows the chapter 0 of "The Arithmetic of Hyperbolic 3-Manifolds", by Colin Maclachlan and Alan W. Reid._

Let $$ k = \mathbb{Q}(t_1, \cdots, t_n) $$ be a finite extension of $$\mathbb{Q}$$ (i.e. all $$t_i$$'s are algberaic). Such a $$k$$ is called a __number field__. When $$k$$ is a number field, there exist $$t \in k$$ such that $$k = \mathbb{Q}(t)$$, i.e. $$k$$ can be generated by one element over $$\mathbb{Q}$$. 

Let the minimal polynomial of $$t$$ be $$m_t$$ with $$\deg m_t = d$$.  Since $$ 1, t, t^2, \cdots, t^{d-1}$$ are linearly independent and $$t^d$$ is a linear combination of $$\{1, \cdots, t^{d-1}\}$$, $$k$$ is a vector space of dimension over $$\mathbb{Q}$$, or $$[ k:\mathbb{Q}] = d $$.

$$m_t$$ has $$d$$ roots in $$\mathbb{C}$$. They are called the conjugates of $$t$$. The map $$\sigma_i \colon \mathbb{Q}(t) \to \mathbb{Q}(t_i); t\mapsto t_i$$ is a field isomorphism. Conversely assume that $$\sigma \colon k\to \mathbb{C}$$ is a field monomorphism. Assume $$\sigma(a_0 + a_1 t + \cdots +a_{d-1}t^{d-1})=  a_0 + a_1 \sigma t + a_2 (\sigma t)^2 + \cdots + a_{d-1} (\sigma t)^{d-1}=0$$, so $$\sigma t $$ should be one of conjugates of $$t$$, i.e. There exist exactly $$d$$ field monomorphisms $$\sigma \colon k \to \mathbb{C}$$. Let $$\sigma_i \colon k\to \mathbb{C}$$ with $$\sigma_i(t) = t_i$$.

Note that $$m_t(x) \in \mathbb{Q}[x]$$, i.e. its zero is real nonreal complex. Assume there are $r_1$ real zeros, then there are corresponding $$r_1$$ real field monomorphism $$\sigma_i \colon k \to \mathbb{C}$$, with $$\sigma_i(k)\subseteq \mathbb{R}$$. The other zeros are occur in conjugate pair, so we have corresponding $$\sigma_i$$ and $$\overline{\sigma_i}$$ field monomorphisms. Let the number of such pair be $$r_2$$, then we have $$d = r_1 + 2 r_2$$. The field $$k$$ is said to have $$r_1$$ __real places__ and $$r_2$$ __complex places__. 

$$k$$ is said to be __totally real__ if $$r_2=0$$, i.e. all places are real. 