---
title: Algebraic Number Theory 04
layout: post
categories: reading
tags: ANT
date: '2021-01-03 22:50:00'
---

_This post series follows the chapter 0 of "The Arithmetic of Hyperbolic 3-Manifolds", by Colin Maclachlan and Alan W. Reid._

Now we are on section _0.2 Algebraic Integers_. 

__Algebraic Integer__ is a complex number which can be a zero of a monic polynomial in $$\mathbb{Z}[x]$$. For example, $$\sqrt{2}$$ is a zero of $x^2-2$ so it is an algebraic integer. $$1/2$$ or $$ \pi$$ are not. We will denote the ring of all algebraic integers as $$\overline{\mathbb{Z}}$$.

The minimum polynomial of an algebraic integer will have its coefficient in $$\mathbb{Z}$$ (this will be proven later).
 
$$\alpha$$ is an algebraic integer iff $$\mathbb{Z}[\alpha]$$ is finitely generated. (It is finitely generated iff there is a linear relation $a_0 + a_1 \alpha + \cdots + a_n \alph^n = 0$, i.e. $$\alpha$$ is an algebraic integer.) 

Therefore, the set of all algebraic integers form a ring. (Let $$\alpha, \beta$$ are algebraic integers. Then $$\{1, \alpha, \cdots, \alpha^{m}\}$$ and $$\{1, \beta, \cdots, \beta^m\}$$ generates the rings $$\mathbb{Z}[\alpha]$$ and $$\mathbb{Z}[\beta]$$ respectively; thus $$\{\alpha^{i}\beta{j} : 0 \le i \le m, 0 \le j \le n\}$$ spans $$\mathbb{Z}[\alpha, \beta]$$, thus its elements $$\alpha + \beta$$ and $$\alpha\beta$$ are also finitely generated, i.e. the set of algebraic integers is closed under addition and multiplication.) 

We will denote the set of all algebraic integers in a field $$k$$ as $$R_k$$ or $$\mathcal{O}_k$$. 

We define the notion of being __integeral over a ring__. Let R be a subring of a commutative ring A. Then $$\alpha \in A$$ is said to be __integral over R__ if it satisfies a monic polynomial in $$R[x]$$. The set of all elements of A which are integral over R is said to be the __integral closure__ of R in A.

By definition, $$R_k$$ is the integral closure of $$\mathbb{Z}$$ in $$k$$.